<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter>
	<title>Advanced</title>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_text_clips" topicid="11"?>
		<title>Creating Text Clips Files</title>
	
		<para>To create a text clips file use the <ulink url="http://www.pnotepad.org/files/textclipcreator.zip">Text Clip Creator</ulink> application.</para>
		<para>Click the link above to download this useful tool. Note that it requires the Microsoft .NET Framework to run.</para>
	</section>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_user_schemes" topicid="12"?>
		<title>Creating User Schemes</title>
	
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_project_templates" topicid="13"?>
		<title>Creating Project Templates</title>
	
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_config_xml" topicid="14"?>
		<title>config.xml</title>
		
		<para>config.xml stores some advanced configuration options for PN.</para>
		<section>
			<title>User Settings Path</title>
			<para>The &lt;userSettings&gt; element defines where PN should store the settings 
			files it creates to store user options. By default this element is not defined, but it can
			be used to make PN portable (i.e. not store settings in the normal system "Documents and Settings" folder).</para>
			<para>If you wanted, for example, to store settings in the "settings" folder on the memory stick you are
			running PN from, you can use this element like so:</para>
			<para><code>&lt;userSettings path="settings"/&gt;</code></para>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Settings Storage</title>
			<para>By default, PN stores a number of settings in the registry for fast access. If you
			want to use an INI file instead, then you can use the &lt;storeType&gt; element to 
			choose this:</para>
			<para><code>&lt;storeType value="Ini"/&gt;</code></para>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Extension Registration</title>
			<para>Each extension is registered with PN using an &lt;extension&gt; element. This
			element can specify either a fully-qualified path or a relative one to point to the dll
			to be loaded:</para>
			<para><code>&lt;extension path="pypn.dll"/&gt;</code></para>
		</section>
	</section>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_command_line" topicid="15"?>
		<title>Command Line Arguments</title>
		<para>The following command line arguments can be used:</para>
		
		<informaltable frame='all'>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<thead>
					<row><entry>Argument</entry><entry>Short form</entry><entry>Meaning</entry></row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row><entry>--line x</entry><entry>-l x</entry><entry>Go to line x</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--col x</entry><entry>-c x</entry><entry>Go to column x</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--scheme name</entry><entry>-s name</entry><entry>Use the named scheme (look in .scheme files to find the name)</entry></row>
					
					<row><entry>--allowmulti</entry><entry></entry><entry>Override configuration and allow multiple instances</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--checkassoc</entry><entry></entry><entry>Check file associations</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--exit</entry><entry></entry><entry>Exit (used for spawned processes, listed for completeness)</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--reset</entry><entry></entry><entry>Reset user settings and interface settings (if your PN has gone wrong!)</entry></row>
					<row><entry>--safemode</entry><entry></entry><entry>Run PN without loading any extensions</entry></row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</informaltable>
	</section>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_extend_pn" topicid="16"?>
		<title>Extend PN</title>
		<para>You can write extensions for PN using C++ or using one of the
		scripting interfaces (like Python through PyPN).</para>
		<para>To get started visit the <ulink url="http://www.pnotepad.org/developer/">web site</ulink>.</para>
	</section>
</chapter>