<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter>
	<title>How To</title>
	<section>
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_howto_capture_compiler_output" topicid="4"?>
		<title>Capture compiler output</title>
	
		<para>This mini-guide will show you how to capture the output of
		a tool such as a compiler or linker.</para>
		
		<section>
			<title>Basic Settings</title>
			<para>Open up the Options dialog from the Tools menu, and select
			the Tools tab. The drop-down box at the top of the tools page 
			allows you to select a scheme that the tool should be available
			with. You can also select "(None - Global Tools)" if you wish 
			the tool to be available everywhere in PN.</para>
			<para>Click "Add" to add a new tool. A new window will pop up 
			allowing you to enter the details of the tool. The first thing 
			to choose is the name of the tool, something like "Compile".</para>
			<para>Next up is the "Command" for the tool, here you select the
			program that the tool will run, for example "cl.exe". Don't put
			any parameters here, they go further down!</para>
			<para>The "Folder" field allows you to set the current directory
			for when the tool runs. It is most often a good idea to set this
			to the folder of the current file you are working on, so put in
			<code>%d</code>.</para>
			<para>Put the parameters for your tool in the "Parameters" field!
			You can use any of the shortcuts shown in the "Special Symbols"
			box at the bottom of the page, for example <code>%f</code> for 
			the filename of the current file or <code>$(ProjectPath)</code> 
			for the path to the current project file. If you just want to 
			pass in the full current filename, you should use <code>"%d%f"</code></para>
			<para>You can choose a shortcut key to use to run your tool, 
			just put your cursor in the shorcut box and press the key combination
			you want, e.g. <keycombo>F7</keycombo> or <keycombo>Ctrl-Shift-B</keycombo>.</para>
			<para>It's often useful to save the current	or all files before 
			running a tool. The Save option allows you to select what files 
			should be saved when running the tool.</para>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Capturing the tool output</title>
			<para>Select the second tab, titled "Console I/O". This tab 
			allows you define how PN will interact with your tool.</para>
			<para>To capture the output from your tool, simply select the 
			"Capture Output?" option. You can then choose whether you want
			the output to be placed in the global output window (the main,
			docking output window) or in an output pane attached to the
			current document. Finally, you can choose whether to clear the
			output window before running the tool.</para>
			<para>PN allows you to click on errors and warnings in your 
			tool output and jump to the relevant parts of source file. It 
			does this by parsing the output from the tool and finding text
			such as <code>"myfile.cpp:21: Error..."</code>. PN has built in support for 
			several tools, to try this support leave the "Use the built-in
			error parser" option checked and run your tool. If you find 
			that PN does not pick up errors from your tool then you will 
			need a custom pattern. To see how to use custom patterns to 
			match errors and warnings see <link linkend="howto_custom_parse_pattern">here.</link></para>
		</section>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_custom_parse_pattern">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_howto_custom_parse_pattern" topicid="5"?>
		<title>Parse unsupported tool output</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_tool_modify_document">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_howto_tool_modify_document" topicid="6"?>
		<title>Modify a document using a tool</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_create_simple_project">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_howto_create_simple_project" topicid="7"?>
		<title>Get started with projects</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_use_magic_folders">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_use_magic_folders" topicid="8"?>
		<title>Use a magic folder</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_use_file_associations">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_use_file_associations" topicid="9"?>
		<title>Associate a file with PN</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_use_scheme_associations">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_use_scheme_associations" topicid="10"?>
		<title>Make a filetype always use a certain scheme</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
	<section id="howto_use_alternate_files">
		<?dbhh topicname="IDH_use_alternate_files" topicid="11"?>
		<title>Switch between related .cpp and .h files</title>
		<para>This documentation is still to be written, <ulink url="mailto:ss@pnotepad.org?subject=documentation%20help">perhaps you can help?</ulink></para>
	</section>
</chapter>
