<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter>
  <title>Text Clips</title>

  <section>
    <?dbhh topicname="IDH_text_clips_intro" topicid="17"?>

    <title>What are Text Clips?</title>

    <para>Text clips are text fragments that are easily inserted into your
    code. Programmer's Notepad ships with a variety of text clips representing
    common programming languages such as C or ASP.NET, or common character
    sets such as the symbols associated with HTML. Text Clips are easily
    extensible so you may modify any existing Text Clip library or extend the
    model to create your own Text Clip files.<note>
        <para>To create a text clips file use the <ulink
        url="http://www.pnotepad.org/files/textclipcreator.zip">Text Clip
        Creator</ulink> application.</para>

        <para>Click the link above to download this useful tool. Note that it
        requires the Microsoft .NET Framework to run.</para>
      </note></para>
	  
		<para>Text Clips are stored as .clips files. These files are located in
      the Clips folder beneath the folder where the Programmer's Notepad
      executable is installed (generally \Program Files\Programmer's Notepad).
      The files are standard XML documents and may be manipulated using any
      text or XML editor.</para>
	  
		<para>Any properly formatted XML file with a .clips extension which is
      located in the Clips folder will load into the Text Clips window
      whenever Programmer's Notepad is started.</para>
	</section>
  <section>
	  <?dbhh topicname="IDH_text_clips_creating" topicid="19"?>
		<title>Manually Create a Text Clip File</title>

		<para>There are at minimum three steps to create a custom Text
		Clip.</para>

		<orderedlist>
			<listitem>
				<para>Use Programmer's Notepad to create an XML document.</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Ensure that the document contains the following XML
				tags:</para>
			</listitem>
		</orderedlist>

		<blockquote>
			<para>&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt; &lt;clips name=”Name for custom
			clips file”&gt; &lt;clip name=”Name of your first text clip”&gt;
			&lt;![CDATA[ first text clip content ]]&gt; &lt;/clip&gt;
			&lt;/clips&gt; </para>
		</blockquote>

		<orderedlist continuation="continues" inheritnum="inherit">
			<listitem>
				<para>Save the file and ensure that it has the .clips
				extension.</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Restart Programmer's Notepad and test your new Text Clips
				library.</para>
			</listitem>
		</orderedlist>
	</section>

	<section>
	  <?dbhh topicname="IDH_text_clips_extending" topicid="18"?>
		<title>To Extend an Existing Text Clip File</title>

		<para>To add a new clip to an existing library:</para>

		<orderedlist>
			<listitem>
				<para>Open the desired Text Clip file in Programmer's Notepad.</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Create a new line following one of the &lt;/clip&gt; tags.
				Note that clips appear in the same order in which they exist in the
				Text Clips file.</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Insert a new &lt;clip&gt; tag and use the name attribute to
				identify your new text clip. Example: &lt;clip name=”my first
				clip”&gt;</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Although not mandatory, to ensure proper parsing of your clip
				you should embed your text clip inside a &lt;![CDATA[ ]]&gt; tag.
				Your text clip is inserted between of the inner square brackets and
				may include line feeds, tabs, angle brackets, and other formatting
				characters. Example: &lt;![CDATA[This is my first text
				clip!]]&gt;</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Complete the text clip by including the closing &lt;/clip&gt;
				tag.</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>Save the file. You must restart Programmer's Notepad before
				your edit will take effect.</para>
			</listitem>
		</orderedlist>
	</section>
</chapter>